1. The simplex algorithm may be used in the fractional knapsack problem where unlike
the 0/1 knapsack problem we can include a whole item or its fraction which opens
up our options of solutions. Converting this problem to linear programming is quite
straighforward since we only have one constraint and that is the capacity.
Lets say we have 3 items and a capacity of 15, we can write the problem as
x1 + x2 + x3 <= 15. Depending on each item's value/weight ratio (v/W) the algorithm
should select value maximizing coefficient's for x1, x2, x3 while satisfying the
constraint. First we have to order the items in decreasing order of the ratio v/W.
We can assume the first item fits in the knapsack and so we set x1 = v1/W1 and
xi = 0 and i > 1. Lets say the first two items will fit in the knapsack but the
third one won't. All there is to be done is calculate the coefficient of the third
item so that the contraint is satisfied and that would be the optimal result.
Since the items are sorted by their ratios, we know we need to fit items with a
lower index first and when the next item doesn't fit the simmplex algorithm simply
calculates the fraction and the item is inserted.

2. Yes this approach will always provide the ideal solution because we're just
stuffing the knapsack with the most valuable items based on their ratio first
and the next item that doesn't fit is only put in partially. This achieves maximum
efficiency which would previously be impossible in the 0/1 knapsack.
Its efficiency would be something along the lines of the greedy algorithm which
essentially does the same thing except for that one item, therefore it would be
O(nW). We musn't forget that the items have to be sorted first.

3. Linear programming tries to find a miximum or minimum solution of the given set of 
linear equations with some constraints.

Integer programming is a subset of linear programming, it has the same characteristics
of linear programming with one simple difference - integer programming's solution 
must be an integer. 
Integer programming is NP-hard while Linear programming is in P. This has its limits
as as computers can only have a finite precision so in practise computers are using
integers for linear programming.

4. Relaxation in integer programming is when the integer part of the constraint 
(definition of integer programming) is removed on a variable etc. all variables
are integers, except for one which has been relaxed. What this creates is a linear
problem which is why it will help the Simplex algorithm solve the Knapsack problem.
It transforms the problem from NP-hard to polynomial time.